Welcome to the final
course review exercise,
also known as the comprehensive review,
where we're going to configure, enrich,
and then deploy a currency
exchange application
which consists of several microservices,
one of which is actually completely
missing in our exercise.
Take care to read through the
instructions, through the introduction,
the objectives of the
comprehensive review,
making sure you do not miss any details.
There are certain services you're
expected to start before the exercise,
or at least at certain key
points during the exercise,
otherwise your tests will fail.
Now, also, feel free
to just simply proceed
one objective at a time and then
return to the instruction,
testing as often as possible.
But when you're ready, just run the
lab comprehensive-review start script,
which populates everything and puts it in
our D0378/labs/comprehensive
-review directory.
You'll be able to see a number of scripts,
number of files that we'll
use throughout the exercise,
such as the certificate,
the keystore, truststore,
an import file for the SQL
tables and database and others.
Now what we're first going to have to
do is to create the currency microservice,
which will basically return
all the currencies that our exchange
office or exchange application supports.
So we're going to use the mvn plugin
for quarkus using the create goal,
placing the resulting project in
the GroupID of org.redhat.
We're going to give it a name of currency.
And the class that we're going to use for
the REST endpoints is going to
be called CurrencyResource,
in a package of org.redhat.currency.
We're also going to initially already
add the orm-panache extension,
the h2 database and the
RESTEasy jsonb extension
to be able to marshall and unmarshall
objects to and from JSON.
So once this plugin completes,
we can enter the currency directory
and initially configure our application
according to the specifications,
setting the HTTP port 5000 and
testing port to 5001.
Now, we also need to create
a data model object.
It's going to be called currency.
And it's going to simply extend
the PanacheEntityBase.
That's by far the simplest way
of implementing persistence.
So we'll annotate it with
entity and we'll select
the name of the currency
is actually its key.
Then we're going to add a couple
of additional properties
to application.properties
file, selecting the datasource.
Type an URL,
and telling that upon
first start database should
be created and the script that
should initialize the
content of database is
called currencies.sql.
We are going to later,
also copy it into the project files
before we start the application.
Now the next thing is
we have to modify
the example Hello World
Restful Web Service.
So what we're going to do is replace
the initial hello method
with three endpoints.
The DELETE endpoint, which is
going to delete the currency.
Then a GET endpoint,
both with an 'id' parameter.
The GET endpoint which will return
the currency information or throw
an exception, if it's not found.
And another method which just simply
lists all the currency names.
Looking at the resources directory,
there's also an index.html
file. Because if you note that
the Path of this microservice
is actually configured
to listen at the top
level, the root context.
This is in conflict with
the index.html file because
it's being served by quarkus
out of the box, if it's there.
Overtaking the context and
preventing us from being able to
invoke the getCurrencyNames method.
So we'll just remove the entire
method in the directory.
Now, next thing we're going to do is add
the test extension called io.quarkus:
quarkus-test-h2 to be able to implement
a unit test to see that the currency
service is working correctly.
We're also going to mark it as
test scope extension, we don't
needed in the compiled application.
And we're going to configure
the test datasource to both
drop-and-create tables upon
startup and to use a in-memory
database called currency,
Right, so we're going to also modify the
existing test file in src/test/java.
The one that is there out
of the box is fairly useless.
So we're going to essentially remove
the existing Test method code.
And we're going to make sure that
it is annotated with the
QuarkusTestResource,
which starts up an H2 database in
memory when we start the tests.
We're just going to make sure that
the defaults are present in our test.
So we're going to invoke
basically the list method.
We're actually not the best method.
We're going to invoke the
GET method for each of
the default currencies that are
built into our application,
as you can see in the application code,
a bit later on. Right! we are also going to
copy the currencies.sql file into
/src/main/resources so as to
enable the initialization of
the database upon startup.
So that's basically these currencies being
tested; they're being loaded upon startup,
from this file.
We can run the tests now.
And upon startup of the tests,
we can see H2 database was
started in accordance with
our annotation and the test has succeeded.
Right! going further, we have to add
some health checks to the application.
So we're going to simply add an
extension called smallrye-health,
quarkus-smallrye-health, and
start the service in dev mode.
Moving over to the next
terminal where we check that
the health endpoint actually does
report the database connection
has been succeeded.
What we'll also do now is use OpenID
Connect to protect some of the endpoints.
So we're going to add the
quarkus-oidc extension.
And then configure the
application properties to
use the OAuth server
at localhost port 8081
in the realms/quarkus having the client ID
of backend-service and the
secret key, simply secret.
Now what do we do next?
We will annotate the DELETE method
with the RolesAllowed annotation,
which will only allow the deleting of
currencies to users that
have a Role of 'confidential'.
That is all basically. Just checking
that everything works well.
It didn't work for me because as I said,
some services need to be started either
at the beginning of the exercise.
And among them is the
KeyCloak server, which
I have personally started
in another terminal window,
which I've personally started
after the failed attempt to test.
There it is. Here's the
keycloak service starting
up and we'll be running into
we press Ctrl+C in the console.
We can just leave it running for
the remainder of the exercise.
Then we can try testing our application,
trying to obtain the sign
for the currency of USD.
Here we go. The application seems
to be working on the GET endpoint.
However, if we send a
DELETE request in order
to delete the US dollar currency,
we get an Unauthorized response.
So we need to initiate a token.
This first attempt is
going to be for alice.
alice does not have
the 'confidential' role.
So if we try to repeat the same
request with alice's token,
we get Forbidden response.
Then we're going to reinitialize
the token variable with the
token belonging to John Doe.
John Doe does have the confidential role.
So when we tried to
repeat the same request,
we do get a 204 response
without any content,
which means that the currency
was successfully deleted. Right!
So we've implemented role-based
access control and authentication.
But for that to make any sense,
we also need to protect the
communication channels.
So we're going to implement SSL,
TLS if you want.
So we'll be adding a couple
of additional properties to
application.properties
files such as selecting
the ssl-port to be 5100 and the
test-ssl-port to be 5101.
We're going to disable any insecure
requests that effectively
closes port 5000, which
we've been using so far,
and we'll be telling the application
to use the key-store-file
in src/main/resources called currency.
keystore with the password of redhat,
so we also need to copy that file
to the correct location, of course.
What we'll also do is we'll turn
off any client authentication.
We do not need to do mutual TLS.
But for testing, we're still
going to allow insecure requests.
So we'll just be adding these two properties
to the end of src/main/resources
application.properties
file. Right! these changes,
changing of the ports, turning on TLS,
these do require the Quarkus
service to be restarted.
So what I had to do is I had to press
Ctrl+C and restart Quarkus once more
to be able to use it on port 5100;
as you can see here.
Coming back to the terminal.
I can check that plain
HTTP doesn't yield any responses.
I can also check that
port 5000 is now closed.
But we do get response on port 5100,
if we try to use the HTTPS protocol,
seeing that the subject issuer
belong to a self-signed certificate.
Right! Let's make sure
that the tests still work.
So running a mvn tests goal,
we can see the tests actually do work.
So, the server is listening
on ports 5001 and 5101.
So that's fine.
Now what we're also going
to do is we're going to
containerize this currency
application of ours.
So we're going to add the
extension container-image-jib.
Now, if we just simply try building
the application immediately,
it's going to fail without
installing a specific package first.
So it tries to package the
application in a container.
But then it needs to store
the image somewhere.
And it fails because it expects
to be able to execute docker.
As you can see in this area,
here on the left-hand side,
because we didn't tell jib
to push the image anywhere,
so it has to store it somewhere.
So it tries to use Docker to store
the image in the local image store.
So what we need to do for this to work
is install podman-docker package.
The podman-docker package basically
simulates, because podman-docker
have exactly the same syntax;
It just basically adds
one command called Docker.
And that will allow jib to,
to finally build the image
and store it locally.
There you can see here
the build was successful.
If we asked podman about
the images on the system,
there is the currency image
with the tag of 1.0.0.0-SNAPSHOT.
So we can then run the resulting
container based off of that image.
It needs to be able to connect to
the OpenID Connect server though.
So we need to tell it where that
server is listening. And its not
localhost because the
application is containerized and
localhost is the local network
interface inside the container.
So we need to tell it where to connect.
If your host name is resolving,
if workstation does resolve to
some sort of an IP, that's perfect.
You can just use the workstation
hostname in the OIDC_HOST parameter.
Otherwise, simply look up
the IP address on one of
your network interfaces and use
it in the OIDC_HOST variable.
The OIDC_PORT should be set to 8081.
And once we run the container, here we go,
it is started up. Testing that
the application still works.
We get a response from port 5100.
So that's great. Now, we
can proceed to modifying
the exchange service to
actually start using
the currency application
rather than simply
presenting us with the
built-in currencies.
So we're going to change the directory
to the exchange application.
We have to create the data model.
The currency is simply a sign and a name.
So that's easy enough.
It's going to be used by our new code.
We also create the currency service
interface, the client interface.
So the interface that the exchange
application is going to
use whenever invoking the
currency application,
as we said, we have to
RegisterRestClient.
We just have to leave in the getCurrencyNames
and get currency endpoints.
We don't need the delete
endpoint. That's it, really.
We do have to configure the client
in application.properties though.
So what we'll do is we'll simply use
the com.redhat.exchange.service.
CurrencyServices/mp-rest
setting and setting the URL to wherever
the currency application is running;
defaulting to HTTPS
localhost on port 5100.
We're also going to copy the
truststore containing the certificate
belonging to the currency service into
src/main/resources of
the exchange application.
Remember, the exchange application
is going to be contacting
the currency service and it needs to
be able to trust its certificate
and that is why we've added this file.
Then of course, that means we need to add
the mp-rest/trustStore and
mp-rest/trustStorePassword properties.
And finally, we will
also implement a feature toggle.
Right now our external currency
service feature is under development.
So we want it to be turned off
by default until we're
finished with implementing it.
So we're going to add a feature.
external_currencies property
to application.properties,
setting it to false.
And we're going to modify
the CurrencyResource.
java file of the exchange application
to add a ConfigProperty.
And the REST client import.
And we're also importing the CurrencyService
because it's
from the service package.
Of course, that's where the interface is,
so that's why we need to import it.
Right! so we're using the
ConfigProperty annotation
to initialize the
externalCurrencies boolean.
By default it's set to
false and we'll be injecting
the REST client implementation of
this CurrencyService interface
into the currencies field.
Then we're going to modify the
getCurrencyNames endpoint.
We're going to remove the built-in code,
which just returns three
currencies and we're going to
replace it with a feature
toggle conditional.
So, if externalCurrencies are enabled,
we're going to invoke the
currencies webclient,
web service client to return the
external services currencies.
Otherwise, we're just going to invoke
the getDefaultCurrencyNames method,
which we've added right here.
And this is where the
old code was moved to.
Similarly for the
getCurrencySign method,
we're going to add the
feature toggle using
the REST client if the
externalCurrencies toggle is on.
Otherwise just getting the default
currency sign for a particular name.
And that's basically the code that
we inserted into the
getCurrencySign to replace
the old code which is now in
getDefaultCurrencySign method
and just contains the
three currencies that initially
were known to the exchange application.
So in another terminal window,
going to the exchange directory and
starting the Quarkus application,
the currency exchange
application in dev mode,
we can come back to the
initial terminal and test it.
So for as long as the currencies
feature toggle is off,
we just simply add the
built-in currencies.
That's perfect. Now let's
turn the feature toggle on,
replacing the value in the feature.
external_currencies from false to true.
Trying to test the
getCurrencies method again.
Here we see that we do successfully
connect to the currency exchange,
to the currency list application
and get the full external list.
Now of course, we need to handle
the eventuality that the external
current application is down.
So we're going to add the
Quarkus smallrye-fault extension here.
The fault tolerance extension allows
us to modify the CurrencyResourec.java,
selecting a fallback method
to be getDefaultCurrencyNames.
So if the client fails in
the getCurrencyNames then
the getDefaultCurrencyNames
method will be invoked instead.
We're also adding a
timeout with just using
the default settings for
the timeout method to
protect us from slow responses in
the currency list application.
So shutting down the container that
is running the currency application.
We can use the short name
of the image, by the way.
Shutting down the container
and coming back to test,
we see that the currencies endpoint
successfully returns just
built-in currencies.
And then restarting the container,
we can see that now the currencies
are actually returned again.
So the last thing we need to
do is add some metrics to the,
to the currency exchange application.
For that purpose, we are going to add
the micrometer-registry-
prometheus extension.
And we're going to implement a metric that
counts how many times the currency
sign has been retrieved by someone.
So in the CurrencyResource.java file,
we're going to add an injection
point for the MeterRegistry.
And then we're going
to add the invocation.
So in the getCurrencySign method,
we're going to add the
invocation to registry.counter,
simply calling it,
currencysign.count.
And every time someone
invokes this method,
we're going to increment
the counter. That's it.
So of course, if if we try to obtain
the metrics information immediately
after adding the counter,
we're not going to get anything
because nobody has invoked
the getCurrencySign method so far.
So what we need to do actually is we
need to go and open the web front-end.
And again, this is a
point where of course,
if you hadn't started the services
at the beginning of the exercise,
you're going to need to start at
least the front-end service and
the history service in
order to be able to
perform some sample
calculations like this,
simply submitting a couple of times
a request to perform conversion.
And once you've done a couple of requests,
simply go back to the
terminal and try to obtain
the metrics where you're going to
see that the currency sign count,
total number of invocations was,
however many times you've
invoke the conversion. Right!
that allows us to grade
the comprehensive-review.
I myself have never started the new
service because we didn't even need it.
So that's why I'm getting a fail here.
And I'm getting a fail
here, as well, because
the exchange application
has in the front-end,
has a news facing endpoint.
Other than that, if you've used
the started-services group at
the beginning of the exercise,
then you should be
getting all successful in
passing scores and overall
exercise grade of pass,
which allows us to clean up using 'lab
comprehensive-review finish' script,
and shut down all the
remaining running applications
such as keycloak by pressing Ctrl+C,
Any other containers that may
still had been running and so on.
And congratulations, this brings
us to the end of the course.
And I hope you've enjoyed it.
I hope you've enjoyed
learning about writing Quarkus
based microservices and
adding microservice features.
I hope you will be joining us
again soon in some other course.
Until then, good luck and all the best.